Premise

In season one, seventeen year old Clay Jensen returns home from school one day to find a mysterious box on his porch. Inside he discovers seven cassette tapes recorded by Hannah Baker, his deceased classmate and unrequited love, who committed suicide two weeks earlier. On the tapes, Hannah unfolds an intensely emotional audio diary, detailing why she decided to end her life. It appears each person who receives this package of old-style tapes is fundamentally related to why she killed herself. Clay is not the first to receive the tapes, but there is implied detail as to how he should pass the tapes on after hearing them. There appears to be an order to distribution of the tapes, with an additional copy held by an overseer should the plan go awry. Each tape recording refers to a different person involved in Hannah's life contributing to a reason for her suicide. The tapes refer to both friends and enemies.

In season two, months after Hannah's suicide, Clay and the other people mentioned on the tapes, as well as close friends and Hannah's family members, become embroiled in a civil legal battle between Hannah's parents and Liberty High School. Alleging negligence on the part of the school, Hannah's mother pursues her perception of justice, while her reluctance to settle pre-trial and her personal circumstances eventually break up her marriage with Hannah's father. The story unfolds with narratives illustrating Hannah's story told by those who present in court at trial.

Clay, who perceives himself as Hannah's failed protector, embarks on an investigation using whatever evidence he can find in an effort to impact on the civil case between Hannah's parents and the school. Clay also endeavours to expose the corrupted culture of the High School and its favour of wealthy, sports savvy male students over the average student, which especially compromises the integrity of young girls such as Hannah.

Throughout season two, Clay appears to be communicating with the ghost of Hannah as a plot narrative device.
Cast and characters
Main

    Dylan Minnette as Clay Jensen, a close friend of Hannah who becomes obsessed with finding out what happened to her.[3]
    Katherine Langford as Hannah Baker, a teenager whose suicide and recorded audio cassettes spark the events of the series.[3] (seasons 1–2)
    Christian Navarro as Tony Padilla, Clay's best friend at Liberty High who tries to help him deal with Hannah's death.[3]
    Alisha Boe as Jessica Davis, a student who starts attending Liberty High at the same time as Hannah.[3]
    Brandon Flynn as Justin Foley, a student at Liberty High who comes from an abusive family and is in a relationship with Jessica.[3]
    Justin Prentice as Bryce Walker, a student from a rich family and the captain of the football team at Liberty High.[3]
    Miles Heizer as Alex Standall, a student at Liberty High, the ex-boyfriend of Jessica and a former friend of Hannah.[3]
    Ross Butler as Zach Dempsey, a cowardly but kindhearted friend of Justin and Bryce at Liberty High.[3]
    Devin Druid as Tyler Down, a bullied student at Liberty High and an avid photographer.[3]
    Amy Hargreaves as Lainie Jensen, Clay's attorney mother.[4]
    Derek Luke as Kevin Porter, a guidance counselor at Liberty High.[5]
    Kate Walsh as Olivia Baker, Hannah's mother, who is determined to uncover the truth about the events leading to her daughter's suicide.[5]
    Brian d'Arcy James as Andy Baker, Hannah's father and Olivia's husband.[6] (season 2; recurring season 1)
    Timothy Granaderos as Montgomery de la Cruz, a bully who is a student at Liberty High. In season 2, he secretly terrorizes a number of individuals testifying at Hannah Baker's trial.[7] (season 3; recurring seasons 1–2)
    Brenda Strong as Nora Walker, Bryce's mother.[7] (season 3; recurring season 2)

Recurring
Introduced in season one

    Josh Hamilton as Matt Jensen, Clay's father, a psychologist.
    Michele Selene Ang as Courtney Crimsen, a closeted student at Liberty High who is responsible for spreading rumors about Hannah to protect the secret of her own sexual orientation. In season 2, she comes out on the stand during the trial of Hannah Baker, confessing her actions against Hannah that landed her on the tapes.
    Steven Silver as Marcus Cole, the self-centered student body president at Liberty High, who is responsible for humiliating and attempting to sexually assault Hannah on a date. In season 2, he is suspended from school after lying on the stand during the trial and following the leaked release of the tapes soon after.
    Ajiona Alexus as Sheri Holland, a student and cheerleader at Liberty High who forms a bond with Clay but is also on the tapes when her actions result in Jeff's accidental death.
    Tommy Dorfman as Ryan Shaver, a student at Liberty High who betrayed Hannah's trust.
    Sosie Bacon as Skye Miller, an estranged friend of Clay. In the second season, Skye and Clay date for while before she leaves for a "fresh start", following another self-harm incident which resulted in her bipolar disorder diagnosis.
    Brandon Larracuente as Jeff Atkins, a student at Liberty High and friend of Clay, who died in a tragic car accident.
    Steven Weber as Gary Bolan, the principal at Liberty High.
    Keiko Agena as Pam Bradley, the Communications teacher at Liberty High.
    Mark Pellegrino as Deputy Bill Standall, Alex's father, a police officer.
    Joseph C. Phillips as Greg Davis, Jessica's father, a member of the Air Force.
    Cindy Cheung as Karen Dempsey, Zach's mother.
    Henry Zaga as Brad, Tony's boyfriend. In season 2, it is revealed that the couple broke up sometime between the events of season 1 and 2.
    Giorgia Whigham as Kat, a friend of Hannah and her former next-door neighbor.
    Robert Gant as Todd Crimsen, one of Courtney's fathers.
    Wilson Cruz as Dennis Vasquez, the lawyer representing Hannah's parents at the end of season 1 and during season 2.

Introduced in season two

    Jake Weber as Barry Walker, Bryce's father.[8]
    Meredith Monroe as Carolyn Standall, Alex's mother.[8]
    R.J. Brown as Caleb, Tony's boxing trainer and boyfriend.[8]
    Anne Winters as Chlöe Rice, a smart, clueless, popular girl at Liberty High and the new head cheerleader who is also Bryce's girlfriend.[9] At the end of season 2, it is revealed that she is pregnant.
    Bryce Cass as Cyrus, an edgy, cynical mischief maker who serves as an unexpected champion of the downtrodden. He befriends Tyler and the two together embark on smear campaigns against bullies.[9]
    Chelsea Alden as Mackenzie, Cyrus' sister, an artsy and witty girl who is not afraid to speak her mind. In season 2, she briefly develops a relationship with Tyler, though the latter breaks it up.[9]
    Allison Miller as Sonya Struhl, a smart and ambitious young litigator, who defends the school during the Hannah Baker trial.[9]
    Brandon Butler as Scott Reed, a student at Liberty High who is on the baseball team.[9]
    Samantha Logan as Nina Jones, a well-respected track star who befriends Jessica over shared sexual assault pasts.[9]
    Kelli O'Hara as Jackie, a passionate advocate for victims of bullying.[9]
    Ben Lawson as Rick Wlodimierz, the baseball coach at Liberty High, who supports and protects his players.[9]