Dexter is an American television crime drama mystery series that aired on Showtime from October 1, 2006, to September 22, 2013.[1] Set in Miami, the series centers on Dexter Morgan (Michael C. Hall), a forensic technician specializing in blood spatter pattern analysis for the fictional Miami Metro Police Department, who leads a secret parallel life as a vigilante serial killer, hunting down murderers who have slipped through the cracks of the justice system. The show's first season was derived from the novel Darkly Dreaming Dexter (2004), the first of the Dexter series novels by Jeff Lindsay. It was adapted for television by screenwriter James Manos, Jr., who wrote the first episode. Subsequent seasons evolved independently of Lindsay's works.

In February 2008, reruns (edited down to a TV-14 rating) began to air on CBS in the wake of the shortage of original programming ensuing from the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike, thus the reruns on CBS ended after one run of the first season. The series enjoyed mostly positive reviews throughout its run and popularity, including four consecutive Primetime Emmy nominations for Best Drama Series starting in season two. Season four aired its season finale on December 13, 2009, to a record-breaking audience of 2.6 million viewers, making it the most-watched original series episode ever on Showtime at that time.[2][3]

In April 2013, Showtime announced that season eight would be the final season of Dexter.[4] The season-eight premiere was the most watched Dexter episode with more than 3 million viewers total for all airings that night.[5] The original broadcast of the series finale—shown at 9 pm on September 22, 2013—drew 2.8 million viewers, the largest overall audience in Showtime's history.[6]
Contents

    1 Plot
        1.1 Series synopsis
        1.2 Dexter: Early Cuts
    2 Production
        2.1 Exterior filming
        2.2 Marketing
        2.3 Break from filming
    3 Cast and crew
        3.1 Cast
        3.2 Crew
    4 Reception
        4.1 Critical reception
        4.2 Popular reception
        4.3 Awards and nominations
        4.4 Cultural impact
            4.4.1 U.S. broadcast
            4.4.2 Association with actual crimes
    5 Theme song and series music
    6 Other media
        6.1 Album soundtrack
        6.2 Comic book
        6.3 DVD/Blu-ray releases
        6.4 Games
        6.5 Merchandise
        6.6 Prop sales
    7 Future
    8 See also
    9 References
    10 Further reading
    11 External links

Plot
See also: List of Dexter episodes

    For the seasonal plots, see Dexter (season one), Dexter (season two), Dexter (season three), Dexter (season four), Dexter (season five), Dexter (season six), Dexter (season seven), and Dexter (season eight).

Series synopsis

Orphaned at age three, when his mother was brutally murdered by a man with a chainsaw, and harboring a traumatic secret, Dexter (Michael C. Hall) was adopted by Miami policeman Harry Morgan (James Remar), who recognized the boy's homicidal, psychopathic tendencies and taught him to channel his gruesome passion for killing in a "constructive" way—by killing only heinous criminals (such as child molesters, mob assassins, rapists, serial killers of the innocent, etc.) who had slipped through the justice system. To satisfy his interest in blood and to facilitate his own crimes, Dexter works as a forensic technician specializing in blood spatter pattern analysis, for the Miami Metro Police Department (based on the real-life Miami-Dade Police Department).[citation needed] Although his drive to kill is unflinching, he is able to simulate, and in some cases feel, normal emotions and maintain his appearance as a socially responsible human being. Dexter is extremely cautious in his kills – e.g., he wears gloves and uses plastic-wrapped kill rooms, carefully cleans up afterward, segments the bodies and disposes of them in the ocean – to reduce the chances of detection.
Dexter: Early Cuts

Dexter: Early Cuts is an animated web series that premiered on October 25, 2009.[7] Michael C. Hall reprises his role as the voice of Dexter.[8]

KTV Media International Bullseye Art produced and animated the webisodes, working closely with Showtime for sound editing, Interspectacular for direction, and illustrators Kyle Baker, Ty Templeton, Andrés Vera Martínez, and Devin Lawson for creating distinctive illustrations. The webisodes are animated with 2.5D style, where flat two-dimensional illustrations are brought to life in three-dimensional space. The first season was created and written by Dexter producer/writer Lauren Gussis. She was nominated for a Webby for her writing on the first season.

The first web series precedes the current narrative of the show and revolves around Dexter hunting down the three victims that he mentions in the sixth episode of season one, "Return to Sender". Each victim's story is split into four two-minute chapters.

A second season of the web series titled Dexter: Early Cuts: Dark Echo, one story in six chapters, premiered on October 25, 2010. It was written by Tim Schlattmann and illustrated by Bill Sienkiewicz and David Mack. The story begins immediately following Dexter's adoptive father Harry's death.[9][10]
Production
Exterior filming

Although the series is set in Miami, Florida, many of the exterior scenes are filmed in Long Beach, California. Many landmark buildings and locations in Long Beach are featured throughout the series.[11] The finale episode's airport scene takes place at Ontario International Airport in Ontario, California.[12]
Marketing

In preparation for the UK launch of the series, Fox experimented with an SMS-based viral marketing campaign. Mobile phone owners received the following unsolicited SMS messages addressed to them by name with no identifying information other than being from "Dexter": "Hello (name). I'm heading to the UK sooner than you might think. Dexter." The SMS-message was followed by an email directing the user to an online video "news report" about a recent spree of killings. Using on-the-fly video manipulation, the user's name and a personalized message were worked into the report – the former written in blood on a wall near the crime scene, the latter added to a note in an evidence bag carried past the camera. While the marketing campaign succeeded in raising the profile of the show, it proved unpopular with many mobile owners, who saw this as spam advertising aimed at mobile phones. In response to complaints about the SMS element of the campaign, Fox issued the following statement:

    The text message you received was part of an internet viral campaign for our newest show Dexter. However it was not us who sent you the text but one of your friends. We do not have a database of viewer phone numbers. The text message went along with a piece on the net that you can then send on to other people you know. If you go to you will see the page that one of your friends has filled in to send you that message. Therefore I suggest you have a word with anyone who knows your mobile number and see who sent you this message. For the record we did not make a record of any phone numbers used in this campaign.[13] 

Break from filming

The show's lead actor, Michael C. Hall, was diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma, a type of cancer, while filming season four of Dexter.[14] Immediately upon completion of filming the fourth season, Hall took a break from acting to begin treatment, including chemotherapy. During his treatment, he was noticeably thinner and had lost his hair, which he hid with a cap or bandana.[14][15] 