Episodes
No.	Title	Directed by?	Written by?[2]	Original air date?[3]
1	"Ashwathama"	Vikramaditya Motwane & Anurag Kashyap	Varun Grover	6 July 2018

The episode is named after the Hindu legend Ashwathama, who was cursed to suffer human life till eternity, in a way making him invincible.
Old time gangster Ganesh Gaitonde (Nawazuddin Siddiqui) kills an unnamed woman who taunts him about the secret she kept for 20 years. A gunman enters a restaurant, killing almost everyone. Sartaj Singh (Saif Ali Khan), an honest policeman, faces departmental enquiry related to a teenager wrongly shot dead in an encounter by his senior, Parulkar. In the same evening, he gets a call from Ganesh Gaitonde, who starts narrating his journey from being the son of a pious and simpleton Brahmin to becoming a feared gangster of Mumbai in the 80s. Unaware of his true identity, Sartaj ignores him until he drops the name of Sartaj's father, constable Dilbag Singh, in the conversation. RAW listens to the whole conversation. Sartaj tracks Ganesh Gaitonde to a small but heavily secured warehouse in a mall, and forces his way through with a bulldozer. He confronts Ganesh Gaitonde, who reveals that Mumbai would be destroyed in 25 days and only Trivedi would be saved, and then fatally shoots himself.
2	"Halahala"	Vikramaditya Motwane & Anurag Kashyap	Smita Singh	6 July 2018

The episode is named after 'Halahala', an extremely toxic poison that comes out as a by-product of an attempt by Devas and Asuras to extract Amrit, the nectar for eternal life.
The forensics team starts its crime scene investigation; RAW agent Anjali Mathur visits the crime scene. Parulkar and RAW agents take the statement of Sartaj. Later, Parulkar suspends Sartaj for not co-operating in the inquiry of a teenager's encounter. Anjali is impressed by Sartaj's analytical skills and asks him to find more about the lady found murdered at the crime scene. Meanwhile, Home Minister Bipin Bhosale is shaken by the news of Gaitonde's death and calls Parulkar for details, and commands him to disclose every minute detail of the case as-it-happens. An actress named Zoya Mirza is also shaken by the news. Sartaj visits the crime scene and steals the car key earlier seen in the hand of dead lady. He locates the car and her home from the license plate. The name of the dead lady is Jojo Mascarenas, a casting agent who doubles up as pimp for struggling actresses. On inspecting her home, he locates a large stash of counterfeit currency and notifies Anjali. In parallel, the narration of Ganesh's life continues. Viewers are introduced to Bunty, a vicious small time criminal who displays deep communal hatred but is very loyal to Gaitonde and idolises him. The title 'Halahala' represent the poison of communal hatred. Bunty is always at loggerheads with Chota Badariya because he is a Muslim and is in a relationship with his sister.
3	"Atapi Vatapi"	Vikramaditya Motwane & Anurag Kashyap	Smita Singh	6 July 2018

The episode is named after two demon brothers, Atapi and Vatapi, who trap and kill travelers in a unique way.
Jojo Mascarenas (Surveen Chawla), a famous casting agent's dead body found in the bunker leads Sartaj to one of Gaitonde's Partner, Bunty (Jatin Sarna). Tracking a mobile location, Anjali reaches the restaurant where a mass shooting happened in Episode 1 and saves an aged Mathu, Gaitonde's ally from the 80s. An unnamed assassin successfully kills Mathu in the hospital with a poisonous injection. Meanwhile, Sartaj comes across a TV starlet, Nayanika. In a recurring flashback, Gaitonde recalls stealing a lucky charm, Kuckoo (Kubra Sait) from his enemy Suleiman Isa, and his journey to becoming a feared gangster of Mumbai.
4	"Brahmahatya"	Vikramaditya Motwane & Anurag Kashyap	Vasant Nath	6 July 2018

The episode is based on the concept of Brahmahatya (Brahmanahatya), which is the act of killing a Brahman or Brahma who resides in every one, implying the act of killing people, not just Hindus.
With the help of RAW, TV starlet Nayanika (Geetanjali Thapa) visits Bunty with a hidden camera to envoke his relationship with Gaitonde. She is caught, alerting Sartaj and Anjali. Sartaj is captured by Bunty and let off with a warning. In the mid-'80s, Gaitonde discovers a racket even more powerful than drugs and guns: Politics. He takes 50 lakh from upcoming politician Bipin Bhosale to influence the elections in Bhosale's favour. Meanwhile, his relationship with Kuckoo intensifies and he tries to convert his black money into white through various corporate plans.
5	"Sarama"	Vikramaditya Motwane & Anurag Kashyap	Vasant Nath	6 July 2018
Disappointed by Anjali's view towards Nainika, Sartaj himself tries to save the TV starlet but dramatically ends interrupting the RAW's plans to catch Bunty. In 1992, as political unrest increases, Gaitonde and Isa's enimity drastically increases.
6	"Pretakalpa"	Vikramaditya Motwane & Anurag Kashyap	Smita Singh	6 July 2018
When Sartaj's constable, Katekar (Jitendra Joshi), is pressured to investigate the case of a young man from a Muslim slum who was found missing for many days, finds a relation between the boy and a theft in nearby shop.
7	"Rudra"	Vikramaditya Motwane & Anurag Kashyap	Vasant Nath	6 July 2018
Hoping to join the missing dots of their case, Sartaj and Anjali reunite to figure out how to find the enigmatic Trivedi, whom Gaitonde quoted to be the lone survivor after 25 days. In the process an Egypto-Indian kills Anjali in Trivedi's house.
8	"Yayati"	Vikramaditya Motwane & Anurag Kashyap	Varun Grover	6 July 2018
To save Mumbai from the threat that Gaitonde stated, Sartaj continues his search to find out who Gaitonde's third father is and what's planned to happen on the 25th day. His discovery leads him to a large room full of dangerous weapons wrapped inside wooden boxes.